you
this lecture is about the specific us
molding methods for language models used
in Kabbalistic of retrieval model in
this lecture we will continue the
discussion of language models for
information retrieval particularly the
query baikonur retrieval method and
wouldn't talk about the specifically
methods used for such a retrieval
function so this is a slide from a
previous lecture where we show that with
a query like hold ranking and smoothing
with the collection language model we
end up having a retrieval function that
looks like the following so this is the
the retrieval function based on these
assumptions that we have discussed you
can see it's a sum over all the match of
the query terms here and inside the Sun
it's the count of the term in the query
and some weight for the term in the
document and we have tf-idf weight here
and then we have another constant here
in the end so clearly if we want to
implement this function using a
programming language we still need to
figure out the few variables in
particular we're going to need to know
how to estimate the probability of a
world exactly and how do we set alpha so
in order to answer these questions we
have to think about this very specific
smoothing methods and that is the main
topic of the structure
we're going to talk about to smooth
methods the first is the simple linear
interpolation with the fixed coefficient
and this is also called a tienen a
conversa smoking so the idea is actually
very simple
this picture shows how we estimate
document language model by using maximum
microarrays made that gives us our
account normalized by the total number
words in the text the idea of using this
method is to maximize the probability of
the observe the text as a result if a
word like network is not observed in the
text it's going to get zero probability
as shown here so the idea of smoothing
then is to rely on collection language
model where this world is not going to
have a zero pub in a day to help us
decide what non zero probability should
be assigned to such a world so we can
know that network has a nonzero
probability here so in this approaching
what we do is we do a linear
interpolation between the maximum
microarrays method here and the
collection language model and this is
controlled by the smoothing parameter
lambda which is between 0 & 1 so this is
a smoothing parameter the larger lambda
to the most moving we have will have so
by mixing them together we achieve the
goal of assigning land 0 probabilities
to a water line network so let's see how
it works for some of the words here for
example if we computed a smooth problem
in a day for text now the maximum micro
resonator gives us 10 over 100 and
that's going to be here but the traction
probability is this so we just combined
them together with this simple formula
we can also see oh the world network
which used to have a zero probably did
now is getting a nonzero probability of
this value and that's because the count
is going to be zero for network here but
this part is nonzero and that's
basically how this method works now if
you think about this and you can easily
see now the Alpha sub team in this
smoothing method is basically member
because that's remember the coefficient
in front of the probability of the world
came in by the correction language model
here right okay so this is the first
mode method the signal one is similar
but it has a dynamic coefficient for
linear interpolation it's often called
original apply or bathing smoothly so
again here we face the problem of zero
probability for an unseen world like a
network again we will use the traction
image model but in this case we're going
to combine them in somewhat different
ways the formula first can be seen as
the interpolation of the maximum
acrylates men and the collection and
model as before as in the GM's
multi-method only not that the
coefficient now is not a lambda a fixed
number but a dynamic coefficient in this
form where mu is the parameter it's a
non-negative value and you can see if we
set Mewtwo a constant the effect is that
a long document would actually get a
smaller coefficient here and because a
long document we're having longer length
therefore the coefficient is actually
smaller and so a long talk you know to
have less smoothing as we would expect
so this seems to make more sense than a
fixed coefficient that's Modi of course
this part would be of this form so that
the two coefficients would sum to one
now this is one way to understand that
this is Modi basically it means it's a
dynamical coefficient interpolation
there is another way to understand this
formula which is even easier to remember
and that's this side so it's easy to see
we can rewrite the smoothly method in
this form now in this form we can easily
see what change we have made it to the
maximum likelihood estimator which would
be this part right so normalizes account
by the top in the length so in this form
we can see what we did is we add this to
the count of every word so what does
this mean well this is basically
something related to the probability of
the word in the collection and we
multiply that by the parameter mu and
when we combine this with the count here
essentially we are adding student comes
to the observe the text we pretend every
word has got this many pseudo count
so the total count would be the sum of
these pseudo counts and the actual count
of the word in the document as a result
in total we would have added this many
solutions why because if you take a sum
of this this one over all the words then
we see the probability of the words
would something 1 and that gives us just
mu so this is the total number of
solutions that we added and so these
probabilities would still something
wrong
so in this case we can either see the
method is essentially to add these as
pseudo count to this data pretend we
actually augment the data by including
some pseudo that are defined by the
collection language model as a result we
have more counts it's the the total
counts for forward a word that would be
like this and as a result even forward
has zero count here it's safe we have 0
count here and then it would still have
nonzero count because of this part so
this is how this method works let's also
take a look at the some specific example
here right so for text again we'll have
10 as original count that we actually
observe but we also add some pseudo
count and so the probability of text
would be of this form naturally the
probability of network would be just
this part and so here you can also see
what's off R sub D here can you see it
if you want to think about you can pause
the video if you notice that this part
is basically alpha sub T right so you
can see this case alpha sub T does
depend on the document because this
length depends on the document whereas
in the linear interpolation the james
mode method this is a constant